### Turbo-BiG-AMP for SL-MUD

This project includes MATLAB codes of Turbo-BiG-AMP algorithm. 

In [1], we study the multiuser detection (**MUD**) problem for a grant-free massive-device multiple access (**MaDMA**) system. Two MUD schemes, termed random sparsity learning multiuser detection (**RSL-MUD**) and structured sparsity learning multiuser detection (**SSL-MUD**) are presented for time-slotted and non-time-slotted scenarios, respectively. We put forth a new algorithm termed turbo bilinear generalized approximate message passing (**Turbo-BiG-AMP**) to blindly detect user data without any prior knowledge of the identities and the channel state information (CSI) of the active users.

This project provides a MATLAB implementation of the Turbo-BiG-AMP algorithm, both for RSL-MUD (time-slotted) and SSL-MUD (non-time-slotted). Note that an important component of Turbo-BiG-AMP is the dictionary algorithm BiG-AMP [2], and some of the core modules are modified from the BiG-AMP implementation of [2]. The original codes of BiG-AMP can be found in [[BiG-AMP]](http://www2.ece.ohio-state.edu/~schniter/BiGAMP/download.html).

#### Main Scripts

1. *Turbo_BiGAMP_NTS.m*
   Turbo-BiG-AMP algorithm for non-time-slotted scenarios (SSL-MUD). It can be directly run without any input. If so, it will run  with default parameters on a randomly generated example.

2. *Turbo_BiGAMP_TS.m*

   Turbo-BiG-AMP algorithm for time-slotted scenarios (RSL-MUD). It can be directly run without any input. If so, it will run  with default parameters on a randomly generated example.

3. *init_simulation_NTS.m*

   This script initializes channel realizations and user packages for one round of Monte-Carlo simulation of SSL-MUD. Packets are generated from Poisson point process, while received signals are generated according to a sliding window. The initial channels and data and will be saved to a *.mat* file with a user-specified name.

4. *simulate_NTS.m*

   This script simulates the SSL-MUD scheme based on the channels and data generated by *init_simulation_NTS.m*. Progress and results will be automatically saved so that you can stop or continue the simulation whenever you want. 

5. *plot_result_NTS.m*

   This script plots the simulation result of SSL-MUD. Note that *data1.mat* already contains a partial simulation result. You can directly draw the curve.

#### References

[[1]](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8716690) T. Ding, X. Yuan and S. C. Liew, "Sparsity Learning-Based Multiuser Detection in Grant-Free Massive-Device Multiple Access," in *IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications*, vol. 18, no. 7, pp. 3569-3582, July 2019.

[[2]](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6898015) J. T. Parker, P. Schniter, and V. Cevher, “Bilinear generalized approximate message passing Part I: Derivation,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 62, no. 22, pp. 5839-5853, Nov. 2014.